How much is enough when it comes to monitoring and alerting?
Any system or component that should it fail,
would cause serious issues,
needs, monitoring, and alerting.
Covering 90 percent of your services important components,
but still leave you blind to 10 percent of the problems that will occur.
Be diligent about identifying critical components,
and finding ways to monitor and alert on them.
Monitoring and alerting are critical,
but once you've been alerted to an issue,
how do you find that problem?
Your ability to track down issues, debug problems,
and get to the root cause of an outage, are equally important.
When you design and build systems,
make sure that you're thinking from the start about how you would debug your platform.
Include comprehensive logging, make extensive use of metric collection,
ensure that you can quickly analyze your logs and metrics.
Know what normal looks like as you will then be able to spot the abnormalities.
How do you ensure that you can not only recover from failure,
but recover quickly and safely?
How do you know that your database backups are complete?
How do you know that your backup systems will come online?
Practice. If you don't practice,
if you don't actually try out your processes and procedures,
you won't know, and the middle of an outage is the wrong time to find that out.